Self-hosted Palette upgrade guides (#2303)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/enterprise-version/upgrade/upgrade-k8s/non-airgap.md

---
sidebar_label: "Non-airgap"
title: "Upgrade Palette Installed with Kubernetes"
description: "Learn how to upgrade self-hosted non-airgap Palette with Helm and Kubernetes."
icon: ""
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["palette", "self-hosted", "non-airgap", "kubernetes", "management", "upgrades"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "enterprise"]
---

This guide takes you through the process of upgrading a self-hosted Palette instance installed with Helm on Kubernetes.

:::warning

Before upgrading Palette to a new major version, you must first update it to the latest minor version available. Refer
to the [Supported Upgrade Paths](../upgrade.md#supported-upgrade-paths) section for details.

If your setup includes a PCG, you must also
[allow the PCG to upgrade automatically](../../../clusters/pcg/manage-pcg/pcg-upgrade.md) before each major or minor
Palette upgrade.

> :::

Reviewer: Same comments as the other ones.

## Prerequisites

- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) and [`helm`](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
  available in your system.

> - Access to the `kubeconfig` file of the target Kubernetes cluster. You must be able to interact with the cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to the kubeconfig file of the target Kubernetes cluster. You must be able to interact with the cluster
```

  through `kubectl` and have sufficient permissions to upgrade Palette. We recommend using a role with the cluster-admin
  permissions.

- `unzip` or a similar tool available in your system.

- Access to the latest Palette Helm Chart. Refer to [Access Palette](/enterprise-version/#access-palette) for more
  details.

## Upgrade

:::info

Depending on your underlying infrastructure provider and Kubernetes distribution, you may need to modify these steps to
match your environment.

:::

1. Open a terminal session and navigate to the directory with the Palette installation zip file. Unzip the file to a
   **palette-install** directory.

   ```shell
   unzip release-*.zip -d palette-install
   ```

2. Navigate to the release directory inside **palette-install**.

   ```shell
   cd palette-install/charts/release-*
   ```

> 3. If you're using a self-hosted OCI registry, then, in a code editor of your choice, open the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If you are using a self-hosted OCI registry, then, in a code editor of your choice, open the
```

Optimizing for non-native English speakers.

   **extras/cert-manager/values.yaml** file and replace the `controllerImage`, `webhookImage`, and `amceResolverImage`
   image URLs with your OCI image registry URLs.

   ```yaml
   image:
   cainjectorImage: "gcr.io/spectro-images-public/release-fips/jetstack/cert-manager-cainjector:spectro-v1.11.0-20230427"
   // highlight-start
   controllerImage: "<your-oci-registry-url>/spectro-images-public/release-fips/jetstack/cert-manager-controller:spectro-v1.11.0-20230427"

>    webhookImage: "<your-oci-registry-url>/spectro-images-public/release-fips/jetstack/cert-manager-webhook:spectro-v1.11.0-20230808"

Reviewer 2: They don't need to update URLs in the non-airgap. They can be downloaded from internet.

Only in case of airgap they need to update it.

    NAME: reach-system
    LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Feb 22 19:47:10 2024
    NAMESPACE: default
    STATUS: deployed
    REVISION: 2
    TEST SUITE: None
    ```

7.  Upgrade Palette with the following command.

    ```shell
    helm upgrade --values palette/values.yaml \
    hubble palette/spectro-mgmt-plane-\*.tgz --install
    ```

    You should receive an output similar to the following.

    ```shell
    Release "hubble" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
    NAME: hubble
    LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Feb 22 20:05:24 2024
    NAMESPACE: default
    STATUS: deployed
    REVISION: 2
    TEST SUITE: None
    ```

8.  Use the following command to track the upgrade process.

    ```shell
    kubectl get pods --all-namespaces --watch
    ```

    :::tip

    For a more user-friendly experience, consider using [K9s](https://k9scli.io/) or a similar tool to track the
    upgrade.

    :::

    The upgrade usually takes up to five minutes. Palette is upgraded when the deployments in the namespaces
    `cp-system`, `hubble-system`, `ingress-nginx`, `jet-system` , and `ui-system` are in the **Ready** status.

## Validate

1. In your terminal, issue the following command.

   ```shell

>    helm ls

Reviewer: Same feedback as the airgap guide.
